content/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction.md, before:

---
title: "Year 1: Instruction"
heading: "Instruction"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you’ll cover:

- the link between effective instruction and pupil learning
- the elements of explicit instruction and the ‘I-we-you’ model as a useful way of approaching this
- how instruction can support more effective pupil thinking

## Week 1: module overview and re-contracting

Introduces foundational elements of instruction and supports teachers and mentors to set up effective ways of working.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video and strand introduction](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-video-and-strand-introduction)
2. [Strand overview](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-strand-overview)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Introduces foundational elements of instruction and supports teachers and mentors to set up effective ways of working.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: identifying learning content

Focuses on identifying essential concepts and considering their role in planning and assessment.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on identifying essential concepts and considering their role in planning and assessment.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: instruction for memory

Considers how teaching can support lasting change in pupils.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Considers how teaching can support lasting change in pupils.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: prior knowledge

Examines the implications prior knowledge and misconceptions have on instruction.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines the implications prior knowledge and misconceptions have on instruction.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: teacher exposition

Explores the challenge(s) when introducing new information and how modelling, explanations and scaffolds can help.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores the challenge(s) when introducing new information and how modelling, explanations and scaffolds can help.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: adapting teaching

Focuses on how effective instruction requires adapting teaching to support and challenge all pupils.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on how effective instruction requires adapting teaching to support and challenge all pupils.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## Week 7: practice, challenge and success

Examines what constitutes purposeful practice and how practice is an integral part of effective teaching.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines what constitutes purposeful practice and how practice is an integral part of effective teaching.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-mentor-materials)

## Week 8: explicit teaching

Explores explicit teaching across a lesson/unit of learning.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores explicit teaching across a lesson/unit of learning.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-mentor-materials)

## Week 9: scaffolding

Focuses on how scaffolds and worked examples can help pupils and how to gradually remove them.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on how scaffolds and worked examples can help pupils and how to gradually remove them.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-mentor-materials)

## Week 10: questioning

Looks at how effective questions can deepen and extend pupil thinking.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Looks at how effective questions can deepen and extend pupil thinking.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-mentor-materials)

## Week 11: classroom talk

Explores how classroom talk can help to develop pupils’ mental models.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores how classroom talk can help to develop pupils’ mental models.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-mentor-materials)

## Week 12: feedback

Examines the link between teacher questions, feedback for pupils and responsive instruction.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines the link between teacher questions, feedback for pupils and responsive instruction.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-mentor-materials)

Commit message:

Add year 1 SIT training materials

content/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction.md, after:

---
title: "Year 1: Instruction"
heading: "Instruction"
caption: "Year 1"
---

## ECTs

In this module you’ll cover:
- the link between effective instruction and pupil learning
- the elements of explicit instruction and the ‘I-we-you’ model as a useful way of approaching this
- how instruction can support more effective pupil thinking

## Induction tutors

Use the materials below to arrange 2 training sessions for your ECTs, one per half term.  

- [Training session 3 - Building effective relationships with parents and carers](/ambition-institute/spring-training-session-3) 

- [Training session 4 - Adapting teaching for pupils](/ambition-institute/spring-training-session-4)

## Week 1: module overview and re-contracting

Introduces foundational elements of instruction and supports teachers and mentors to set up effective ways of working.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video and strand introduction](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-video-and-strand-introduction)
2. [Strand overview](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-strand-overview)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Introduces foundational elements of instruction and supports teachers and mentors to set up effective ways of working.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: identifying learning content

Focuses on identifying essential concepts and considering their role in planning and assessment.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on identifying essential concepts and considering their role in planning and assessment.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: instruction for memory

Considers how teaching can support lasting change in pupils.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Considers how teaching can support lasting change in pupils.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: prior knowledge

Examines the implications prior knowledge and misconceptions have on instruction.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines the implications prior knowledge and misconceptions have on instruction.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: teacher exposition

Explores the challenge(s) when introducing new information and how modelling, explanations and scaffolds can help.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores the challenge(s) when introducing new information and how modelling, explanations and scaffolds can help.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: adapting teaching

Focuses on how effective instruction requires adapting teaching to support and challenge all pupils.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on how effective instruction requires adapting teaching to support and challenge all pupils.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## Week 7: practice, challenge and success

Examines what constitutes purposeful practice and how practice is an integral part of effective teaching.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines what constitutes purposeful practice and how practice is an integral part of effective teaching.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-7-mentor-materials)

## Week 8: explicit teaching

Explores explicit teaching across a lesson/unit of learning.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores explicit teaching across a lesson/unit of learning.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-8-mentor-materials)

## Week 9: scaffolding

Focuses on how scaffolds and worked examples can help pupils and how to gradually remove them.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Focuses on how scaffolds and worked examples can help pupils and how to gradually remove them.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-9-mentor-materials)

## Week 10: questioning

Looks at how effective questions can deepen and extend pupil thinking.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Looks at how effective questions can deepen and extend pupil thinking.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-10-mentor-materials)

## Week 11: classroom talk

Explores how classroom talk can help to develop pupils’ mental models.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Explores how classroom talk can help to develop pupils’ mental models.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-11-mentor-materials)

## Week 12: feedback

Examines the link between teacher questions, feedback for pupils and responsive instruction.

Duration: 40 minutes.

1. [Video](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-video)
2. [Teaching challenge](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-teaching-challenge)
3. [Reflect](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-ect-reflect)

### Mentors

Examines the link between teacher questions, feedback for pupils and responsive instruction.

[View mentor materials](/ambition-institute/year-1-instruction/spring-week-12-mentor-materials)
