content/education-development-trust.md, before:

---
title: "Education Development Trust"
---

## Year 1: Autumn term

### [Establishing a positive climate for learning](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning)

In this module you’ll learn about teaching your pupils how to behave in your classroom, setting clear expectations and reinforcing these with consistent routines.

### [How pupils learn](/education-development-trust/year-1-how-pupils-learn)

In this module you’ll gain an understanding of how the brain works, and how you can then design more effective learning for your pupils.

## Year 1: Spring term

### [Developing effective classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-developing-effective-classroom-practice)

In this module you’ll focus on the fundamental techniques you can use to become a more effective teacher.

### [The importance of subject and curriculum knowledge](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge)

In this module you’ll learn practical ways to develop your subject and curriculum knowledge.

## Year 1: Summer term

### [Assessment, feedback and questioning](/education-development-trust/year-1-assessment-feedback-and-questioning)

In this module you’ll work on developing effective assessment and feedback practices.

### [A people profession](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession)

In this module you’ll focus on developing strong professional relationships to build the best outcomes for your pupils.

## Year 2: Autumn term

### [Embedding a positive climate for learning](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning)

In this module you’ll look at what motivates pupils so you can develop a really purposeful learning environment.

### [How pupils learn - making it stick](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick)

In this module you’ll consider how you can make new learning stick over time so that pupils remember what they’ve been taught.

## Year 2: Spring term

### [Enhancing classroom practice - grouping and tailoring](/education-development-trust/year-2-enhancing-classroom-practice-grouping-and-tailoring)

In this module you’ll enhance your teaching effectiveness by learning advanced group and pair working skills.

### [Revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge)

In this module you’ll focus on how you can use your in-depth understanding of the subjects you teach to strengthen your pupils’ knowledge.

## Year 2: Summer term

### [Deepening assessment, feedback and questioning](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning)

In this module you’ll build on your existing knowledge to develop further practical ways to hone your assessment, feedback and questioning techniques.

### [Continuing your professional development](/education-development-trust/year-2-continuing-your-professional-development)

In the final module you will learn how professional development can help you improve your practice.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust.md, after:

---
title: "Education Development Trust"
---

## Year 1: Autumn term

### [Establishing a positive climate for learning](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning)

In this module you'll learn about teaching your pupils how to behave in your classroom, setting clear expectations and reinforcing these with consistent routines.

### [How pupils learn](/education-development-trust/year-1-how-pupils-learn)

In this module you'll gain an understanding of how the brain works, and how you can then design more effective learning for your pupils.

## Year 1: Spring term

### [Developing effective classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-developing-effective-classroom-practice)

In this module you'll focus on the fundamental techniques you can use to become a more effective teacher.

### [The importance of subject and curriculum knowledge](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge)

In this module you'll learn practical ways to develop your subject and curriculum knowledge.

## Year 1: Summer term

### [Assessment, feedback and questioning](/education-development-trust/year-1-assessment-feedback-and-questioning)

In this module you'll work on developing effective assessment and feedback practices.

### [A people profession](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession)

In this module you'll focus on developing strong professional relationships to build the best outcomes for your pupils.

## Year 2: Autumn term

### [Embedding a positive climate for learning](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning)

In this module you'll look at what motivates pupils so you can develop a really purposeful learning environment.

### [How pupils learn - making it stick](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick)

In this module you'll consider how you can make new learning stick over time so that pupils remember what they've been taught.

## Year 2: Spring term

### [Enhancing classroom practice - grouping and tailoring](/education-development-trust/year-2-enhancing-classroom-practice-grouping-and-tailoring)

In this module you'll enhance your teaching effectiveness by learning advanced group and pair working skills.

### [Revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge)

In this module you'll focus on how you can use your in-depth understanding of the subjects you teach to strengthen your pupils' knowledge.

## Year 2: Summer term

### [Deepening assessment, feedback and questioning](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning)

In this module you'll build on your existing knowledge to develop further practical ways to hone your assessment, feedback and questioning techniques.

### [Continuing your professional development](/education-development-trust/year-2-continuing-your-professional-development)

In the final module you will learn how professional development can help you improve your practice.
