content/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge.md, before:

---
title: "Year 2: Second half-term: revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
heading: "Second half-term: revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you’ll focus on how you can use your in-depth understanding of the subjects you teach to strengthen your pupils’ knowledge.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you’ll be learning.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: curriculum design and subject knowledge

For this topic you’ll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-theory)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities for this topic.

## Week 2: complex mental models

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: establishing secure knowledge

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your school’s induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic.

Duration: 60 minutes.

### Mentors

There are no materials for this topic. Instead, your school’s induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic with you and the ECT.

## Week 4: strengthening pupils’ subject knowledge

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: putting it into practice

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they’ve learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge.md, after:

---
title: "Year 2: Second half-term: revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
heading: "Second half-term: revisiting the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you'll focus on how you can use your in-depth understanding of the subjects you teach to strengthen your pupils' knowledge.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you'll be learning.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: curriculum design and subject knowledge

For this topic you'll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-theory)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities for this topic.

## Week 2: complex mental models

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: establishing secure knowledge

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your school's induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic.

Duration: 60 minutes.

### Mentors

There are no materials for this topic. Instead, your school's induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic with you and the ECT.

## Week 4: strengthening pupils' subject knowledge

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: putting it into practice

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they've learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-revisiting-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
