content/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning.md, before:

---
title: "Year 2: First half-term: deepening assessment, feedback and questioning"
heading: "First half-term: deepening assessment, feedback and questioning"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you’ll build on your existing knowledge to develop further practical ways to hone your assessment, feedback and questioning techniques.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you’ll be learning.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: feedback

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: efficient approaches to assessment

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 15 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 3: marking - learning from colleagues

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: high-quality feedback

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 15 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 5: marking - efficiencies

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they’ve learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning.md, after:

---
title: "Year 2: First half-term: deepening assessment, feedback and questioning"
heading: "First half-term: deepening assessment, feedback and questioning"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you'll build on your existing knowledge to develop further practical ways to hone your assessment, feedback and questioning techniques.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you'll be learning.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: feedback

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: efficient approaches to assessment

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 15 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-2-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 3: marking - learning from colleagues

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: high-quality feedback

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 15 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 5: marking - efficiencies

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they've learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/summer-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-deepening-assessment-feedback-and-questioning/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
