content/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick.md, before:

---
title: "Year 2: Second half-term: how pupils learn - making it stick"
heading: "Second half-term: how pupils learn - making it stick"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you’ll consider how you can make new learning stick over time so that pupils remember what they’ve been taught.

## Module introduction

This week you just need to watch the brief video introduction to the module.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

There’s no catch-up with the ECT this week. You just need to watch the brief video introduction to the module.

## Week 1: introduction to making learning stick

There are no self-study materials this week.


### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 2: the importance of practice

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: balancing exposition, repetition, practice and retrieval

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your school’s induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic.

Duration: 75 minutes.

### Mentors

There are no materials for this topic. Instead, your school’s induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic with you and the ECT.

## Week 4: putting it into practice

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 5: designing tasks and support to help pupils access the information they need

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they’ve learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick.md, after:

---
title: "Year 2: Second half-term: how pupils learn - making it stick"
heading: "Second half-term: how pupils learn - making it stick"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you'll consider how you can make new learning stick over time so that pupils remember what they've been taught.

## Module introduction

This week you just need to watch the brief video introduction to the module.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

There's no catch-up with the ECT this week. You just need to watch the brief video introduction to the module.

## Week 1: introduction to making learning stick

There are no self-study materials this week.


### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 2: the importance of practice

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: balancing exposition, repetition, practice and retrieval

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your school's induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic.

Duration: 75 minutes.

### Mentors

There are no materials for this topic. Instead, your school's induction lead should arrange a training session on this topic with you and the ECT.

## Week 4: putting it into practice

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT
- briefly watch them teach

## Week 5: designing tasks and support to help pupils access the information they need

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they've learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/autumn-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-how-pupils-learn-making-it-stick/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
