content/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge.md, before:

---
title: "Year 1: Second half-term: the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
heading: "Second half-term: the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you’ll learn practical ways to develop your subject and curriculum knowledge.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you’ll be learning.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1 : subject and curriculum knowledge

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to reflect on what they’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward
- briefly watch them putting this week’s development focus into action in the classroom

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: sequencing a coherent curriculum

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: an introduction to literacy

For this topic you’ll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-theory)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 4: misconceptions and a deeper look at literacy

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: putting it into practice

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 70 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Intended outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-intended-outcomes)
3. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge.md, after:

---
title: "Year 1: Second half-term: the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
heading: "Second half-term: the importance of subject and curriculum knowledge"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you'll learn practical ways to develop your subject and curriculum knowledge.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you'll be learning.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1 : subject and curriculum knowledge

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to reflect on what they've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward
- briefly watch them putting this week's development focus into action in the classroom

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: sequencing a coherent curriculum

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: an introduction to literacy

For this topic you'll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-3-ect-theory)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 4: misconceptions and a deeper look at literacy

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: putting it into practice

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 70 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Intended outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-intended-outcomes)
3. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/spring-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-the-importance-of-subject-and-curriculum-knowledge/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
