content/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession.md, before:

---
title: "Year 1: Second half-term: a people profession"
heading: "Second half-term: a people profession"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you’ll focus on developing strong professional relationships to build the best outcomes for your pupils.

## Module introduction

During the first week of the module you need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- meet your mentor to discuss what you’ll be learning in the weeks ahead

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they’ll be learning in the weeks ahead

## Week 1: building effective relationships

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to reflect on what they’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward
- briefly watch them putting this week’s development focus into action in the classroom

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: pupils and their families

There are no self-study materials for this topic. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element for this topic. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: your colleagues

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 55 minutes.

1. [Instructions: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-instructions-developing-effective-relationships)
2. [Learning outcomes: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes-developing-effective-relationships)
3. [Theory: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-theory-developing-effective-relationships)
4. [Instructions: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-instructions-working-with-the-senco)
5. [Learning outcomes: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes-working-with-the-senco)
6. [Theory: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-theory-working-with-the-senco)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: teaching assistants

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: looking after yourself

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials below to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession.md, after:

---
title: "Year 1: Second half-term: a people profession"
heading: "Second half-term: a people profession"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you'll focus on developing strong professional relationships to build the best outcomes for your pupils.

## Module introduction

During the first week of the module you need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- meet your mentor to discuss what you'll be learning in the weeks ahead

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they'll be learning in the weeks ahead

## Week 1: building effective relationships

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to reflect on what they've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward
- briefly watch them putting this week's development focus into action in the classroom

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: pupils and their families

There are no self-study materials for this topic. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element for this topic. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: your colleagues

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 55 minutes.

1. [Instructions: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-instructions-developing-effective-relationships)
2. [Learning outcomes: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes-developing-effective-relationships)
3. [Theory: developing effective relationships](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-theory-developing-effective-relationships)
4. [Instructions: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-instructions-working-with-the-senco)
5. [Learning outcomes: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-learning-outcomes-working-with-the-senco)
6. [Theory: working with the SENCO](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-ect-theory-working-with-the-senco)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: teaching assistants

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: looking after yourself

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/summer-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-a-people-profession/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials below to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
