content/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning.md, before:

---
title: "Year 1: First half-term: establishing a positive climate for learning"
heading: "First half-term: establishing a positive climate for learning"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you’ll learn about teaching your pupils how to behave in your classroom, setting clear expectations and reinforcing these with consistent routines.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you’ll be learning.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [What you will learn](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-what-you-will-learn)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: foundations of a positive climate for learning

During the first week of the module you need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- meet your mentor to discuss what you’ll be learning in the weeks ahead

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [1a Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-instructions)
2. [1a Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-learning-outcomes)
3. [1a Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-evidence)
4. [1b Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-instructions)
5. [1b Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-learning-outcomes)
6. [1b Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-evidence)

### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they’ll be learning in the weeks ahead

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: routines

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: establishing high behavioural expectations

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead a discussion about this topic in your catch-up with them.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: maintaining high behavioural expectations

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with the ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: a supportive and inclusive learning environment

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead a discussion about this topic in your catch-up with them.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: putting it into practice

For this topic you’ll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 90 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 7: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 55 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-instructions)
2. [Intended outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-intended-outcomes)
3. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Lesson content](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-lesson-content)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning.md, after:

---
title: "Year 1: First half-term: establishing a positive climate for learning"
heading: "First half-term: establishing a positive climate for learning"
caption: "Year 1"
---

In this module you'll learn about teaching your pupils how to behave in your classroom, setting clear expectations and reinforcing these with consistent routines.

## Module introduction

Go through the module introduction to see what you'll be learning.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [What you will learn](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-what-you-will-learn)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Go through the module introduction to see what the ECT will be learning.

## Week 1: foundations of a positive climate for learning

During the first week of the module you need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- meet your mentor to discuss what you'll be learning in the weeks ahead

Duration: 60 minutes.

1. [1a Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-instructions)
2. [1a Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-learning-outcomes)
3. [1a Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1a-evidence)
4. [1b Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-instructions)
5. [1b Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-learning-outcomes)
6. [1b Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-ect-1b-evidence)

### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they'll be learning in the weeks ahead

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: routines

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 45 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: establishing high behavioural expectations

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead a discussion about this topic in your catch-up with them.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: maintaining high behavioural expectations

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Theory](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-ect-theory)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with the ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-4-mentor-materials)

## Week 5: a supportive and inclusive learning environment

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead a discussion about this topic in your catch-up with them.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: putting it into practice

For this topic you'll need to work through the self-study materials below.

Duration: 90 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

There are no mentor activities this week.

## Week 7: lesson observations

Use the materials below to plan observations of colleagues or yourself ahead of your mentor catch-up.

Duration: 55 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-instructions)
2. [Intended outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-intended-outcomes)
3. [Ideas for observation](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-ect-ideas-for-observation)

### Mentors

Use the materials below for an end of module review with the ECT.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-7-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 10 minutes.

1. [Lesson content](/education-development-trust/year-1-establishing-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-lesson-content)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
