content/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning.md, before:

---
title: "Year 2: First half-term: embedding a positive climate for learning"
heading: "First half-term: embedding a positive climate for learning"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you’ll look at what motivates pupils so you can develop a really purposeful learning environment.

## Module introduction

Watch the video introduction to this module.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Watch the video introduction to this module.

## Week 1: welcome back

During the first week of the module you should catch up with your mentor to discuss what you’ll be learning in the weeks ahead.


### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they’ll be learning in the weeks ahead

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: understanding the evidence

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you’ve learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: motivating pupils

For this topic you’ll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT’s study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: regulating emotions

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

## Week 5: challenging content

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn’t have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they’ve learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you’ve learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you’d like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.

Commit message:

update html tags for images so they work and are semantic

content/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning.md, after:

---
title: "Year 2: First half-term: embedding a positive climate for learning"
heading: "First half-term: embedding a positive climate for learning"
caption: "Year 2"
---

In this module you'll look at what motivates pupils so you can develop a really purposeful learning environment.

## Module introduction

Watch the video introduction to this module.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-instructions)
2. [Video introduction](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-video-introduction)

### Mentors

Watch the video introduction to this module.

## Week 1: welcome back

During the first week of the module you should catch up with your mentor to discuss what you'll be learning in the weeks ahead.


### Mentors

During the first week of the module you should:

- read the materials below
- catch up with the ECT to discuss what they'll be learning in the weeks ahead

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-1-mentor-materials)

## Week 2: understanding the evidence

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor to reflect on what you've learnt, discuss any issues or concerns, and decide what actions to take going forward

Duration: 30 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-instructions)
2. [Learning outcomes](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-learning-outcomes)
3. [Evidence](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-ect-evidence)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-2-mentor-materials)

## Week 3: motivating pupils

For this topic you'll need to:

- work through the self-study materials below
- catch up with your mentor

Duration: 20 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-ect-instructions)
2. [Classroom practice](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-ect-classroom-practice)

### Mentors

For this topic you should:

- read the ECT's study materials below
- catch up with your ECT

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-3-mentor-materials)

## Week 4: regulating emotions

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

## Week 5: challenging content

There are no self-study materials this week. Instead, your mentor will lead the discussion about this topic in your weekly meeting.


### Mentors

The ECT doesn't have a self-study element this week. Instead, you should use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with them about this topic.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-5-mentor-materials)

## Week 6: review of the module

Your mentor should arrange a catch-up with you to discuss what you have learnt during this module.

Duration: 30 minutes.

### Mentors

Use the materials below to help you plan a discussion with the ECT about what they've learnt during this module.

[View mentor materials](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/autumn-week-6-mentor-materials)

## End of module reflections

Use this time to take some high-level notes on what you've learnt in this module. Also note down any related areas you'd like to strengthen in future.

Duration: 5 minutes.

1. [Instructions](/education-development-trust/year-2-embedding-a-positive-climate-for-learning/intro-ect-instructions)

### Mentors

Your ECT will use the materials to take some high-level notes on what they have learnt in this module.
